# Periodic Meeting Notes

## What I accomplished last week

[Link to last meeting notes](./2023-06-26.md)

### Priority

#### A

- [X] Port Clustal-Omega to Yggdrasil 
    - [X] Port libargtable2 (ClustalO dependency) to Yggdrasil (awaiting approval - https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/pull/6952)
    - [X] Initial Linux/MacOS/FreeBSD build (draft pull request while awaiting argtable_jll -  https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/pull/6953)
- [X] Initial MUSCLE.jl project repo ([https://github.com/M-PERSIC/MUSCLE.git](https://github.com/M-PERSIC/MUSCLE.git))
    - [X] README to match BioJulia template (will update links/badges once ready)
    - [X] initial documentation (README template)

#### B

- [X] Develop skeleton BioJuliaDocs repo ([https://github.com/M-PERSIC/BioJuliaDocs.git](https://github.com/M-PERSIC/BioJuliaDocs.git))
    - [X] Initial BioJuliaDocs repo (built from scratch, will build up while integrating code/patterns from SciMLDocs instead of a complete fork)
    - [X] Contact @ChrisRackauckas concerning BuildKite/CI internals of SciMLDocs (BuildKite uneeded for now, for SciMLDocs it is used to generate a pipeline with S3 integration for GPU workloads)

### Notes

#### A

- libargtable2 does include a Windows build process ([Cross-compiling argtable2 for Windows from Linux](https://sourceforge.net/projects/argtable/files/)) via MinGW (Yggdrasil build environment).  Will add as a low priority goal for now, since it could make ClustalO the default backend option with all Julia Tier 1 platforms supported. New users of BioAlignments.jl would not have to pick and choose a compatible backend to conduct multiple sequence alignment.

#### B

- [Github projects](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/planning-and-tracking-with-projects/learning-about-projects/about-projects), upon research, would be largely excessive for the purposes of complenting the JSoC project hub repo. It does, however, work well as a community project tracker. I am currently thinking of integrating into the repo a project board with each issue representing a section/subsection of the docs. 

## What I plan to do this week

- The first half of the week I will work almost on drafting the BioJuliaDocs plan as well as setting up the repo, and then focus on MUSCLE.jl for the second half.

### Priority

#### A

- [ ] Complete MUSCLE.jl code (sans BioAlignments.jl integration)
    - [ ] Support most MUSCLE options
        - [ ] efastats
        - [ ] efa_explode
        - [ ] fa2efa
        - [ ] disperse
        - [ ] addconfseq
        - [ ] letterconf
        - [ ] maxcc
        - [ ] resample
    - [ ] Basic align/super5 command support with regular FASTA-formatted files 
    - [ ] Basic align/super5 commandsupport with the `FASTX.FASTA.Record` type
    - [ ] Tests with sample FASTA files
    - [ ] Documentation (index(README) + API)
- [ ] Discuss BioAlignments.jl integration
    - [ ] Draft basic outline (UML, C4?) model
    - [ ] Discuss together (Slack, meeting)
    - [ ] Draft issue to BioAlignments.jl for community discussion

#### B

- [ ] Launch BioJuliaDocs community initiative
    - [ ] Setup repo (pull request approvals, actions,...)
    - [ ] Generate GitHub project board
    - [ ] Invite community (Slack, Discourse)

### Low priority

#### A

- [ ] Clustal-Omega Windows build
- [ ] Setup ClustalO/MAfft repos (best to wait until MUSCLE.jl is nearing completion)

#### B

- Contacts (wait until the repo/project is launched )
    - [ ] Contact @maltesie for potential [BioTutorials](https://github.com/BioJulia/BioTutorials) integration 
    - [ ] Contact @kool7d for potential [BioMakie](https://github.com/kool7d/BioMakie.jl) integration

#### Explore

- First pull request to a package in the BioJulia ecosystem
    - Some documentation is without a dark mode, possibly due to older Documenter version?
    - What if FormatSpecimens also included each file as Pkg artifacts?

## Is there anything that Kevin can help with?

#### A

- I may ask you for your input regarding the structure of the MUSCLE.jl package. I had originally envisioned a config pattern with a `Muscle` struct containing shared options, however MUSCLE is multi-purpose with some exclusive flags per command, therefore I'm leaning on multiple dispatch.

#### B

- Before officially launching the BioJulia initiative, I'd like to go through with you the GitHub repo if possible to make sure that is well tailored as a community repo (pull requests require approval, action to require labels for each pull request,...)

## Periodic survey

This week, (check all that apply):

- [ ] I accomplished all or most of my goals
- [X] I used my time wisely
- [ ] I struggled with a problem, but solved it
- [ ] I ran into an issue I could not solve on my own.

A large amount of my time last week was spent researching and experimenting with different ideas/solutions, thus I am feeling confident in myself moving forward with the tasks at hand.